README.md, before:

# docker-node-express

This project is for learning and experimenting in the context of a multi-tier application.

## Build the image

In the image name, `k0emt` is my "organization".  I added `latest` as my tag after the `:`

```bash
docker build -t k0emt/docker-node-express:latest .
```

## Spinning up an image

```bash
docker run -p 3030:3000 -d --name web k0emt/docker-node-express
```

[see the running webpage](http://localhost:3030)

## Notes

- Explore the built image `docker run -it --rm k0emt/docker-node-express sh`
- view logs from a run `docker logs container-name`

- mongodb import
`mongoimport --db=graphql --collection=trolls --file=trolls.json --jsonArray`

## Docker Compose Idea

Mutilple containers comprising a website solution

- Website (Presentation)
  - Gatsby
  - Hexo.io
  - React
  - svelte
  - express generator app
- CLI (presentation)
  - [chalk](https://github.com/chalk/chalk)
  - [oclif.io](https://oclif.io/)
  - [cli-ux](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cli-ux)
- GraphQL API (logic)
  - Apollo
  - express graphql
- Database
  - redis (in memory key-value)
  - mongodb (document)
  - postgresql (object-relational)
  - dynamodb local (key-value and document)
  - some graph database

## Other experimenting ideas

- snowpack / parcel / webpack
- fetch / axios
- jest / cypress

## My Resources

- [Docker notes](docker-notes.md)
- [redis docker notes](redis-docker.md)
- [postgresql notes](postgresql-docker.md)

## External Resources

- [Docker-node docs](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/blob/master/README.md#run-a-single-nodejs-script)
- [nodejs docs](https://nodejs.org/fr/docs/guides/nodejs-docker-webapp/)
- [Medium article running a node app in docker](https://medium.com/@uix/running-a-node-application-in-docker-8950f176ec4e)
- [Hasura blog writing dockerfiles](https://hasura.io/blog/an-exhaustive-guide-to-writing-dockerfiles-for-node-js-web-apps-bbee6bd2f3c4/)
- [Alligator.io Express Basics](https://alligator.io/nodejs/express-basics/)

Commit message:

breakout examples.  add non-root example

README.md, after:

# docker-node-express

This project is for learning and experimenting in the context of a multi-tier application.

## Build the image

In the image name, `k0emt` is my dockerhub userid.  I added `latest` as my tag after the `:`  Adding `latest` is not necessary.

```bash
docker build -t k0emt/docker-node-express:latest .
```

## Spinning up an image

```bash
docker run -p 3030:3000 -d --name web k0emt/docker-node-express
```

[see the running webpage](http://localhost:3030)

## Notes

- Explore the built image `docker run -it --rm k0emt/docker-node-express sh`
- view logs from a run `docker logs container-name`

- mongodb import
`mongoimport --db=graphql --collection=trolls --file=trolls.json --jsonArray`

## Docker Compose Idea

Mutilple containers comprising a website solution

- Website (Presentation)
  - Gatsby
  - Hexo.io
  - React
  - svelte
  - express generator app
- CLI (presentation)
  - [chalk](https://github.com/chalk/chalk)
  - [oclif.io](https://oclif.io/)
  - [cli-ux](https://www.npmjs.com/package/cli-ux)
- GraphQL API (logic)
  - Apollo
  - express graphql
- Database
  - redis (in memory key-value)
  - mongodb (document)
  - postgresql (object-relational)
  - dynamodb local (key-value and document)
  - some graph database

## Other experimenting ideas

- snowpack / parcel / webpack
- fetch / axios
- jest / cypress

## Examples in this repo

- [Simple Example](examples/simple/)
- [Non-root user example](examples/not-root/)

## My Resources

- [Docker notes](docker-notes.md)
- [redis docker notes](redis-docker.md)
- [postgresql notes](postgresql-docker.md)

## External Resources

- [Docker-node docs](https://github.com/nodejs/docker-node/blob/master/README.md#run-a-single-nodejs-script)
- [nodejs docs](https://nodejs.org/fr/docs/guides/nodejs-docker-webapp/)
- [Medium article running a node app in docker](https://medium.com/@uix/running-a-node-application-in-docker-8950f176ec4e)
- [Hasura blog writing dockerfiles](https://hasura.io/blog/an-exhaustive-guide-to-writing-dockerfiles-for-node-js-web-apps-bbee6bd2f3c4/)
- [Alligator.io Express Basics](https://alligator.io/nodejs/express-basics/)
